---
title: "Fall 2021"
description: "Meetings from the Fall 2021 semester."
lead: "Meetings from the Fall 2021 semester."
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  wiki:
    parent: "meetings"
weight: 630
toc: true
---

## Meetings and Topics Covered

| Date            |Location| Topics Covered                                     |
|-----------------|--------|----------------------------------------------------|
|2021-09-16 5:30PM|CS 1257 |"Soft Launch Meeting", meet and greet
|2021-09-30 5:30PM|CS 1240 |First meeting, Linux and command-line interfaces
|2021-10-14 5:30PM|CS 1257 |NSA Codebreaker Challenge, NFC demo
|2021-10-28 5:30PM|CS 1257 |Wifi-hacking demo with Aircrack and Hashcat
|2021-11-11 5:30PM|CS 1257 |Industry jobs presentation, Wifi-hacking lab
|2021-12-02 5:30PM|EH 1209 |Phishing, phishing tools
|2021-09-16 5:30PM|EH 1209 |Last meeting, club social and Q&A

## Email Communications

### Last meeting of Fall semester

<small>:mega: December 7, 2021 at 10:12 PM</small>

Our next meeting will be this **Thursday, December 9nd, at 5:30pm**. It will take place in Engineering Hall, Room 1209, like last meeting. As a reminder, that room is in the far back left of Engineering Hall.  

Since finals is approaching and many people also have projects to work on, we plan on having a social to relax and close up this semester. Come and hang out with us and get to know other members better! In addition, we will also bring in a few hardware tools, explain how some of the tools are used, and answer people's questions about them, and other cybersecurity questions too!  

We had a great semester as a club, and we hope everyone had fun at the meetings. If there is anything people think we can do better, feel free to reach out so we can improve for the Spring!  

Best of luck with finishing up the Fall 2021 Semester, and see you at the social on Thursday!

### Cybersecurity UW Meeting

<small>:mega: November 29, 2021 at 10:51 PM</small>

We hope everyone had a great Thanksgiving break! Our next meeting is Thursday, December 2nd, at 5:30pm. It will take place in Engineering Hall, Room 1209, which is in the far back left of Engineering Hall.  

At this meeting, we will be going over the topic of Phishing. We will show tools that are used by pen-testers for Phishing campaigns, show examples of phishing, and explain different ways to check if a email, website, or other message is an attempt at phishing.

### Meeting Next Week

<small>:mega: November 24, 2021 at 1:42 PM</small>

Hopefully everyone's week is going well. Our next meeting will be on Thursday, December 2nd at 5:30pm. As we figure out more information, we will send a follow up email with the location for this meeting.

Hope everyone has a nice Thanksgiving break!  

### Cybersecurity UW Meeting

<small>:mega: November 10, 2021 at 1:07 PM</small>

We have our next meeting Tomorrow (November 11th) at 5:30pm in the same room as last time (Computer Science 1257). At this meeting we will open with a quick introduction to jobs and fields in cybersecurity. After that, we will have an activity to work on. Since many people also enjoyed the Wi-Fi hacking demo, we will also have a small group activity for people who want to try to hack a Wi-Fi network (WPA2 again). We will have a few laptops for groups of 3 people to use and try to hack the router like in our demo.

### Wi-Fi Hacking demo

<small>:mega: October 26, 2021 at 9:53 PM</small>

The next Cybersecurity UW meeting will be this Thursday on October 28 @ 5:30 PM! The meeting will be in the same room as last time (Computer Science Building, room 1257).  

In this meeting we will be doing a Wi-Fi Hacking demo! This is a scenario where the attacker would want access to a locked Wi-Fi network.  We will show how to disconnect a client, capture an encrypted handshake, crack the Wi-Fi password offline, and then reconnecting to the network with the cracked key.

After this demo, we can discuss the tools we used and introduce a few concepts of password cracking. After we can then split off into groups and talk about general topics interests with the remaining time.

### Meeting Two

<small>:mega: October 7, 2021 at 9:16 PM</small>

Hope your week has been going well! In our last meeting we worked on getting familiar with Command line interfaces and sent out a discord survey on what topics you would be interested in for this week's meeting. Since many of you were interested in learning about exploits, we will be doing the topics related to basic web and application exploits, specifically with XSS (Cross site scripting attacks) and buffer overflows. The next meeting will be in **room 1257 in the CS Building** **from 5:30pm to 6:30pm on Thursday (October 14th).**  

In addition, during this meeting one of our leadership members will be going over a walkthrough of task one in the NSA code breaker challenge. For those who are working on the challenge already, you will be able to work on some of the first six challenges together too if there is time.  

**Please Note:** We recommend you bring a laptop to this meeting. If you have any questions about devices or compatibility, reach out in the discord or by email to csec@ischool.wisc.edu  

### Cybersecurity UW Meeting Tomorrow!

<small>:mega: September 29, 2021 at 9:09 PM</small>

Sorry for the lack of communication, we have been working on trying to get a slightly larger room for this meeting since the room we used for the last meeting was a bit too small and not available tomorrow. Because of this, we have been working to find a room we could use for this meeting. As of today, we were able to reserve **room 1240 in the CS Building for tomorrow's meeting (9/30/21)** **from 5:30pm to 6:30pm.****​** We hope that people will be able to attend with such short notice, and we are working on getting a single room for all future meetings this semester. We will update all of you with this information as it is finalized.

We understand that people have varying levels of understanding when it comes to topics in Linux. With this in mind, we have planned tomorrow's meeting as an opportunity to share a variety of resources with people, help people who are new to Linux ask questions, and give an opportunity to work on learning / experimenting with commands on a temporary cloud computer. Remember that asking your neighbors for help on a concept is always a great idea! Collaborating with the people around you are one of the best ways to help learn. Don't be afraid to ask questions and don't be scared to try unfamiliar or unknown commands on the cloud systems. Experimenting with the shell will really help you learn as well!  

For people already familiar with Linux, we will offer resources for people to start exploring different cybersecurity avenues. Knowing the topics that interest you will allow us to introduce you to different program tools and concepts. You can then choose to research more about the topic and begin to experiment with tools on your own systems.

**Please Note:** that the systems we will be using tomorrow are offered to the world for free. The service we will be using is used to test and try out a large variety of Linux systems. We will recommend using one of two Debain Standard systems for most people since they use less resources for the service and have all the required features for testing the command line and different Shells. Once you are done with the system, please shut down the system rather than letting the system timer expire. We will go over this information before we begin using the cloud system tomorrow.  

### Cybersecurity UW First Event!

<small>:mega: September 15, 2021 at 5:54 PM</small>

We're thrilled to invite you all to our **Soft Launch Meeting tomorrow from 5:30 PM - 6:30 PM @ the Computer Sciences Building, Room 1257!**

Especially since many of you are newly registered for the club, we'd love to meet you all there -- we'll be giving a quick introduction to the club and the NSA Codebreaker Challenge that recently went live.

Afterwards, you'll have time to begin the challenge, or network with the others!

At the bottom of this email, we have links to our Discord server and our Microsoft Teams group (Which was more relevant when we had online meetings, but still an option to join). We recommend joining the Discord as it is a great way to communicate with everyone in the club, share resources, and ask questions with other members.  

Please mark your calendars for our first official meeting Thursday, September 30th @ 5:30 - 6:30, Location TBA. In our first meeting we will be going over club activities and interests, leadership availabilities, accepting members into the club, and more.  

In addition, we wanted to share information about job opportunities from the Office of Cybersecurity. The Cybersecurity Operations Center is hiring student analysts. They are expecting to hire between 2-4 students. The position closes on 9/19 and people should apply if interested! All majors encouraged to apply as well! Here is the link to apply: [https://studentjobs.hr.wisc.edu/en-us/job/499629/cybersecurity-operations-center-csoc-student-intern-analyst](https://studentjobs.hr.wisc.edu/en-us/job/499629/cybersecurity-operations-center-csoc-student-intern-analyst)
